# Data Script
The Data script (Scripts/Data.gd) can be used to store data related to the game state. Things like the player's name, event flags, etc. It is a global script, meaning it can be accessed from anywhere in the project by using 'Data.my_variable_name.'

Information should be stored in Data as variables:

```gdscript
var player_name: String = "Stranger";
var my_flag: bool = false;
```

NOTE: Every variable in the Data script must be of a type that is able to be converted to JSON by `JSON.stringify()`. This is because the contents of the Data script are converted into a Dictionary and stored as JSON when calling [`Narrare.save()`](narrare_global_script.md#save). For more information on saving, see [Narrare](narrare_global_script.md).

The Data script comes with a variable and methods related to storing and retrieving a player's inventory. These are defined in the `DataBase` class, which the Data script extends.

## Variables

##### player_inventory

**`player_inventory: PackedStringArray;`**

> The player's inventory. Contains a PackedStringArray of identifiers of [Interactable](interactable.md)s which reference [Interactable](interactable.md)s defined in the [Interactables](interactables.md) script. To add an [Interactable](interactable.md) to the player's inventory, use [add_to_inventory](#add_to_inventory). To remove an item, use [remove_from_inventory](#remove_from_inventory). You can use [get_inventory](#get_inventory) to access this property.

> Note that [Interactable](interactable.md) in the player's inventory must be stored in the [Interactables](interactables.md) script, NOT in a [Room](room.md)'s `room_interactables` property.

## Functions

##### add_to_inventory

> **`add_to_inventory(item_name: String) -> void`**

> Adds an interactable name to the player's inventory.

##### remove_from_inventory

> **`remove_from_inventory(item_name: String) -> bool`**

> Removes an interactable by name from the player's inventory. Returns `false` if that interactable name wasn't found in the inventory, otherwise returns `true`.

##### get_inventory

> **`get_inventory() -> PackedStringArray`**

> Gets the player's inventory.

##### to_dict

> **`to_dict() -> Dictionary`**

> Converts this script's properties into a `Dictionary`. Called when using [`Narrare.save()`](narrare_global_script.md#save).

##### from_dict

> **`from_dict(in_data_dict: Dictionary) -> void`**

> Takes a `Dictionary` `in_data_dict` generated by [to_dict](#to_dict) and sets the contents of the Data script to equal the values in `in_data_dict`. Called when using [`Narrare.load()`](narrare_global_script.md#load_save).